Now the Spring framework will naturally
support multiple property files and
thought we'd set up a little example of
that. And what I've done is I created a
little fake Jms Broker class, just a
different type for us to work with. Again
we just have username, password and url
that we're going to configure on it. I'm
mimicking a JMS broker that we're going
to be setting up. And what we want to do
is set up second properties file for them
and I've got that added and the same
following the convention of guru.jms.username. So you do need to have unique
properties across everything with inside
Spring because that they will overwrite
each other and sometimes without
complaining. So it kind of depends on
where they fall in the hierarchy and so
you do want to use unique names for
different components where you need them
to be unique and that's what I've done
here with the guru.jms. And I've gone in
our PropertyConfig and I
also set up new values. I'm just using
the values so you can see that I have
the Value annotations there, 32 to 39
and then on 51, I'm creating a Bean of
that FakeJmsBroker and let's go over
to the application and we'll grab a
instance of that as well.
And we want to do a system
out just do ask out and I'll bring up a
shortcut there in IntelliJ and it will
up with the Username for that. Now if I
run this now it's going to fail because
we're not bringing in that property. So
we can see that we're not getting that
jms.username in there. So what we need to
do is come over to our PropertyConfig because that is in a
different properties file but we haven't
sourced it in. And the PropertySource
annotation can actually take in a list
of values. We're going to expand that out
and this time, I'm going to say jms.properties and this should work now.
Let's take a look at that and now we see
that I'm getting the the jms.username
there which is exactly what we want and
still showing the override value from
before. Now there is one other that we
can use. I'm going to comment this out
and this is an annotation that was added
in spring 4. You use the PropertySource
annotation and then add in
multiple property sources. I'm sorry the
PropertySources annotation. And then add
in multiple PropertySource.
And this will taking a list of these
annotated values. You can see I'm doing a
command space to bring up the
intellisense there in IntelliJ and it's
bringing up the property files for us
and now we can see this is a
little bit better. So on line 18 is the
previous value that I had using PropertySource
and now in line 1, I'm using the
PropertySources and if you have a lot
of property files, I think this is
probably a little more pleasing on the
eye than try and do a list in Property
Sources. It really doesn't matter which
one you use. It's really up to you. I'm going to run
this and show you that it does work.
Either one is acceptable but there's a
lot. I'm going to prefer to use PropertySources.
It just seems to be a little
cleaner to me, cleaner on the eye. I've
been on Enterprise projects where you
have literally dozens of property files
that you're wiring together and it can
get to be a little unwieldy at times
because a lot of times you're taking
these property files and organizing them
by some type of function like I've done
here where I have one for a data source.
I recommend a representative database
and then I have another one for the jms
properties. So that's pretty common
that you're going to be doing that and
then you'll be using your configurations
to bring in combinations of the
properties that you need for specific
environments.